docs: tw-772-reorg-finality-for-indexers (#3478)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/how-arbitrum-works/reference/finality-and-reorgs.mdx

| Parent-chain final                                               | `finalized` | The batch containing the block has been posted to the parent chain and reached the parent chain's `finalized` block.                                                                         | Only if the parent chain itself reverts a finalized block (on Ethereum, economically infeasible). |

<VanillaAdmonition type="tip" title="The load-bearing rule">

An Arbitrum block is only as final as the parent-chain block that carries its batch. Soft confirmation is fast (sub-second) but reversible. <a data-quicklook-from="hard-finality">Hard finality</a>—the `safe` and `finalized` tags—is inherited from the parent chain and is what makes a block reorg-proof.

</VanillaAdmonition>

### What "seconds to finality" really means

On an AnyTrust chain it is common to assume finality is achieved in seconds, as soon as the <a data-quicklook-from="data-availability-committee-dac">Data Availability Committee (DAC)</a> signs the block's data. That describes **soft confirmation and data availability**, not hard finality:

> - The Sequencer executes and broadcasts the block immediately—this is your sub-second soft confirmation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Sequencer executes and broadcasts the queued transactions immediately—this is your sub-second soft confirmation.
```

- The DAC signing a <a data-quicklook-from="data-availability-certificate">Data Availability Certificate (DACert)</a> guarantees the data _is retrievable_, so the batch can be posted compactly. It does not settle the block against the parent chain.
- Hard finality still requires the batch (or DACert) to be posted to the parent chain's <a data-quicklook-from="sequencer-inbox">Sequencer Inbox</a> and for that parent-chain block to finalize.

> So on your chain, "seconds" is the soft-confirmation latency; the reorg-proof guarantee tracks Base finality, which in turn tracks Ethereum finality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So on your chain, "seconds" is the soft-confirmation latency; the reorg-proof guarantee tracks your parent chain's finality, which in turn tracks Ethereum finality.
```
